Battleships

Paper and pencil games have been around forever. We all played tic-tac-toe as kids, trading X and O's 
for hours. As we grew older, we moved on to hangman, and when we could find graph paper, we'd play 
battleships. We'd draw two 10 by 10 squares, then mark numbers 1 to 10 along one side and letters A to 
J on another. We'd mark X's on one grid representing our fleet then take turns calling out grid 
coordinates to sink each other's ships. We'd use the other grid to track our shots, then go back and 
forth, calling our shots, until we sunk our opponent's fleet. 

For this last game, our Circuit Playground version of the battleship game will give you the feel of an old 
mainframe computer game.  We'll connect a serial terminal program to our board and play using text 
output and keyboard input. Since this book uses Circuit Playground boards, we'll use these, but the 
battleship game can run on just about any microcontroller board that supports Circuit Python or micro 
Python. You can even run it directly on your Windows or Mac computer from a command prompt. All 
the code is standard Python.

What You'll Need

*	A circuit Playground Express or Bluefruit board,
*	A computer,
*	A USB cable,
*	A terminal program like Terra Term for Windows or Serial for Mac ,
*	The file code.py in this folder.

Game Setup

1.	Connect the Circuit Playground board to your computer using a USB cable.
2.	Copy the file code.py into your Circuit Playground's flash memory.
3.	Start your serial terminal program, select the serial port for your Circuit Playground board (9600 
baud), then press the control key and the letter d to restart the board.
4.	You should see the message 'Welcome to Battleships...'.
5.	Type 'help' to see the help page or type new to start a game.


Game Play

1.	Type 'new' to start a new game. You'll see a blank ten by ten grid with numbers across the top 
and letters along the sides. These are your grid coordinates.
2.	Take your first shot by entering a grid coordinate such as 'B6' or 'J10' then press the 'enter' key.
3.	You'll see a response indicating whether you hit or missed one of your opponent's ships as well 
as a plot on the grid, asterisk (*) for a miss, 'O' for a hit.
4.	When you hit a ship, fire at the coordinates near the square you hit to sink the ship.  
5.	Continue until you sink all of your opponent's fleet.
6.	When you sink the last ship, you'll see the number of shots it took to sink your opponent's fleet. 
Keep track of this score and see how well you improve over time.
7.	Enter 'exit' at any time to end a game.


From the book 'Ten Games for the Circuit Playground Express' by Rick Leander.
Go to https://www.amazon.com/author/rleander to see my book page. 
